# Image-Tamper-Detection-and-Localisation

Modern digital technology and the availability of increasingly powerful image processing tools can easily manipulate the digital images without leaving obvious visual traces of having been tampered, so there is an urgent need to identify the authenticity of images. In the fields such as forensics, medical imaging, e-commerce, and industrial photography, authenticity and integrity of digital images is essential. A watermark serves the purpose of ensuring the integrity of data and the ownership authenticity of an image. Watermarking algorithms can detect the presence of attacks on images. The proposed work addresses the issue of ensuring the integrity of images by propounding a secure and efficient watermarking algorithm for the detection and localization of image tampering. The method adopted is a spatial domain based block embedding technique. which utilizes a unique key based embedding using SHA-1 (Secure Hashing Algorithm) hashing. The hash key code produced by XORing the random block keys generated and SHA-1 hash computed for each block is used as the watermark for the integrity protection and authentication of the image. A high PSNR value of 51.13 dB and SSIM value of 0.99 is obtained for the watermarked images. The proposed method can efficiently detect various tampering attacks - constant average attack, copy paste attack, copy move, general tampering attacks and brightness and contrast attacks. The metrics such as False Positive Rate (FPR), False Negative Rate (FNR) and Tamper Detection Rate (TDR) values for each of the images is calculated and it is observed that the proposed method can handle tamperings of various sizes, from very small to large.
